The play, “measure for measure” is an extraordinary and rich play, which takes us through different contexts at once and can be interpreted in a wide range of ways, fictively set in the major European city of Vienna. It revolves around the strict laws enforced in Vienna and the degree of punitive behavior, regarding premarital sex, which could lead to beheading and forced marriage.
But it is not entirely about premarital sex. There are a number of perceptions it has been presented in, by different sorts of people, neither of which could be considered wrong, but a little more persuasive over one another. 
It is more about the laws of Vienna, that had been allowed to be unenforced, which in turn resulted in, seeking help from someone strict to help enforce. This play is clear emblematic of the laws which are not connected with understanding humanity, which is also a very familiar condition in the 21st century either. This makes the play more immersive and relatable for the reader. It talks about the big framed and highly specific things, which we can localize. 
Measure of measure, can also be read as a kind of meta-drama, with Duke as a playwright, where he was on behind, setting up scenes, getting people to lie and behave against their own character, like the whole bed trick, where substitution of women in Angelo’s bed takes place, which was Angelo’s idea and the unmasking scene at the end of the play when all characters are brought together. This seems like the character departing from the play as an actor, but actually results in his immense involvement in more actions, as he gets involved in the love plot, while it was said that the dripping dark of love has never touched his bosom. 
The play at once also signifies Duke as the king who happens to be on the throne, a protestant to figure with strong views about moral rectitude, not of his own, but everyone else’s. It talks about James’s power and how different it was from the erotic, flirtatious, and equally distant power, Elizabeth held over her subjects. The social reforms or the social change he was interested in and tried to analyze by watching as an audience, becomes a vital part of the play. 
In this way, the play touches almost every aspect of the emerging laws, their oppression, manipulation, and the thrifting nature of characters from what they are assigned, strongly emphasizing the punitive nature of pre-marital sex during the sixteenth and seventeenth century.